## [To `panic!` or Not to `panic!`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#to-panic-or-not-to-panic)

Therefore, returning `Result` is a good default choice when you’re defining a function that might fail.

In situations such as examples, prototype code, and tests, it’s more appropriate to write code that panics instead of returning a `Result`.

### [Examples, Prototype Code, and Tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#examples-prototype-code-and-tests)

In examples, it’s understood that a call to a method like `unwrap` that could panic is meant as a placeholder for the way you’d want your application to handle errors, which can differ based on what the rest of your code is doing.

Similarly, the `unwrap` and `expect` methods are very handy when prototyping, before you’re ready to decide how to handle errors. They leave clear markers in your code for when you’re ready to make your program more robust.

Because `panic!` is how a test is marked as a failure, calling `unwrap` or `expect` is exactly what should happen.

### [Cases in Which You Have More Information Than the Compiler](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#cases-in-which-you-have-more-information-than-the-compiler)

If you can ensure by manually inspecting the code that you’ll never have an `Err` variant, it’s perfectly acceptable to call `unwrap`, and even better to document the reason you think you’ll never have an `Err` variant in the `expect` text. Here’s an example:

```rust
    use std::net::IpAddr;

    let home: IpAddr = "127.0.0.1"
        .parse()
        .expect("Hardcoded IP address should be valid");
```

However, having a hardcoded, valid string doesn’t change the return type of the `parse` method: we still get a `Result` value, and the compiler will still make us handle the `Result` as if the `Err` variant is a possibility because the compiler isn’t smart enough to see that this string is always a valid IP address.

### [Guidelines for Error Handling](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#guidelines-for-error-handling)

It’s advisable to have your code panic when it’s possible that your code could end up in a bad state. In this context, a _bad state_ is when some assumption, guarantee, contract, or invariant has been broken, such as when invalid values, contradictory values, or missing values are passed to your code—plus one or more of the following:

- The bad state is something that is unexpected, as opposed to something that will likely happen occasionally, like a user entering data in the wrong format.
- Your code after this point needs to rely on not being in this bad state, rather than checking for the problem at every step.
- There’s not a good way to encode this information in the types you use.

Similarly, `panic!` is often appropriate if you’re calling external code that is out of your control and it returns an invalid state that you have no way of fixing.

When your code performs an operation that could put a user at risk if it’s called using invalid values, your code should verify the values are valid first and panic if the values aren’t valid. This is mostly for safety reasons: attempting to operate on invalid data can expose your code to vulnerabilities. This is the main reason the standard library will call `panic!` if you attempt an out-of-bounds memory access: trying to access memory that doesn’t belong to the current data structure is a common security problem. Functions often have _contracts_: their behavior is only guaranteed if the inputs meet particular requirements. Panicking when the contract is violated makes sense because a contract violation always indicates a caller-side bug and it’s not a kind of error you want the calling code to have to explicitly handle. In fact, there’s no reasonable way for calling code to recover; the calling _programmers_ need to fix the code. Contracts for a function, especially when a violation will cause a panic, should be explained in the API documentation for the function.

Code trying to pass nothing to your function won’t even compile, so your function doesn’t have to check for that case at runtime. Another example is using an unsigned integer type such as `u32`, which ensures the parameter is never negative.

### [Creating Custom Types for Validation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#creating-custom-types-for-validation)

One way to do this would be to parse the guess as an `i32` instead of only a `u32` to allow potentially negative numbers, and then add a check for the number being in range, like so:

```rust
    loop {
        // --snip--

        let guess: i32 = match guess.trim().parse() {
            Ok(num) => num,
            Err(_) => continue,
        };

        if guess < 1 || guess > 100 {
            println!("The secret number will be between 1 and 100.");
            continue;
        }

        match guess.cmp(&secret_number) {
            // --snip--
    }
```

The `if` expression checks whether our value is out of range, tells the user about the problem, and calls `continue` to start the next iteration of the loop and ask for another guess. After the `if` expression, we can proceed with the comparisons between `guess` and the secret number knowing that `guess` is between 1 and 100.

However, this is not an ideal solution: if it was absolutely critical that the program only operated on values between 1 and 100, and it had many functions with this requirement, having a check like this in every function would be tedious (and might impact performance).

Instead, we can make a new type and put the validations in a function to create an instance of the type rather than repeating the validations everywhere. That way, it’s safe for functions to use the new type in their signatures and confidently use the values they receive.

```rust
pub struct Guess {
    value: i32,
}

impl Guess {
    pub fn new(value: i32) -> Guess {
        if value < 1 || value > 100 {
            panic!("Guess value must be between 1 and 100, got {}.", value);
        }

        Guess { value }
    }

    pub fn value(&self) -> i32 {
        self.value
    }
}
```

If `value` doesn’t pass this test, we make a `panic!` call, which will alert the programmer who is writing the calling code that they have a bug they need to fix, because creating a `Guess` with a `value` outside this range would violate the contract that `Guess::new` is relying on.

Next, we implement a method named `value` that borrows `self`, doesn’t have any other parameters, and returns an `i32`. This kind of method is sometimes called a _getter_, because its purpose is to get some data from its fields and return it. This public method is necessary because the `value` field of the `Guess` struct is private. It’s important that the `value` field be private so code using the `Guess` struct is not allowed to set `value` directly

## [Summary](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch09-03-to-panic-or-not-to-panic.html#summary)

The `panic!` macro signals that your program is in a state it can’t handle and lets you tell the process to stop instead of trying to proceed with invalid or incorrect values. The `Result` enum uses Rust’s type system to indicate that operations might fail in a way that your code could recover from.