# [Generic Types, Traits, and Lifetimes](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-00-generics.html#generic-types-traits-and-lifetimes)

First, we’ll review how to extract a function to reduce code duplication. We’ll then use the same technique to make a generic function from two functions that differ only in the types of their parameters. We’ll also explain how to use generic types in struct and enum definitions.

Then you’ll learn how to use _traits_ to define behavior in a generic way. You can combine traits with generic types to constrain a generic type to accept only those types that have a particular behavior, as opposed to just any type.

Finally, we’ll discuss _lifetimes_: a variety of generics that give the compiler information about how references relate to each other. Lifetimes allow us to give the compiler enough information about borrowed values so that it can ensure references will be valid in more situations than it could without our help.

## [Removing Duplication by Extracting a Function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-00-generics.html#removing-duplication-by-extracting-a-function)

```rust
fn largest(list: &[i32]) -> &i32 {
    let mut largest = &list[0];

    for item in list {
        if item > largest {
            largest = item;
        }
    }

    largest
}

fn main() {
    let number_list = vec![34, 50, 25, 100, 65];

    let result = largest(&number_list);
    println!("The largest number is {}", result);
    assert_eq!(*result, 100);

    let number_list = vec![102, 34, 6000, 89, 54, 2, 43, 8];

    let result = largest(&number_list);
    println!("The largest number is {}", result);
    assert_eq!(*result, 6000);
}
```

The `largest` function has a parameter called `list`, which represents any concrete slice of `i32` values we might pass into the function.

1. Identify duplicate code.
2. Extract the duplicate code into the body of the function and specify the inputs and return values of that code in the function signature.
3. Update the two instances of duplicated code to call the function instead.

In the same way that the function body can operate on an abstract `list` instead of specific values, generics allow code to operate on abstract types.

For example, say we had two functions: one that finds the largest item in a slice of `i32` values and one that finds the largest item in a slice of `char` values.
