### [In Function Definitions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html#in-function-definitions)

When defining a function that uses generics, we place the generics in the signature of the function where we would usually specify the data types of the parameters and return value.

```rust
fn largest_i32(list: &[i32]) -> &i32 {
    let mut largest = &list[0];

    for item in list {
        if item > largest {
            largest = item;
        }
    }

    largest
}

fn largest_char(list: &[char]) -> &char {
    let mut largest = &list[0];

    for item in list {
        if item > largest {
            largest = item;
        }
    }

    largest
}

fn main() {
    let number_list = vec![34, 50, 25, 100, 65];

    let result = largest_i32(&number_list);
    println!("The largest number is {}", result);
    assert_eq!(*result, 100);

    let char_list = vec!['y', 'm', 'a', 'q'];

    let result = largest_char(&char_list);
    println!("The largest char is {}", result);
    assert_eq!(*result, 'y');
}
```

Two functions that differ only in their names and the types in their signatures

To parameterize the types in a new single function, we need to name the type parameter, just as we do for the value parameters to a function. You can use any identifier as a type parameter name. But we’ll use `T` because, by convention, type parameter names in Rust are short, often just a letter, and Rust’s type-naming convention is CamelCase. Short for “type,” `T` is the default choice of most Rust programmers.

To define the generic `largest` function, place type name declarations inside angle brackets, `<>`, between the name of the function and the parameter list, like this:

```rust
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
```

We read this definition as: the function `largest` is generic over some type `T`. This function has one parameter named `list`, which is a slice of values of type `T`. The `largest` function will return a reference to a value of the same type `T`.

```rust
fn largest<T: std::cmp::PartialOrd>(list: &[T]) -> &T {
    let mut largest = &list[0];

    for item in list {
        if item > largest {
            largest = item;
        }
    }

    largest
}

fn main() {
    let number_list = vec![34, 50, 25, 100, 65];

    let result = largest(&number_list);
    println!("The largest number is {}", result);

    let char_list = vec!['y', 'm', 'a', 'q'];

    let result = largest(&char_list);
    println!("The largest char is {}", result);
}
```

For now, know that this error states that the body of `largest` won’t work for all possible types that `T` could be. Because we want to compare values of type `T` in the body, we can only use types whose values can be ordered. To enable comparisons, the standard library has the `std::cmp::PartialOrd` trait that you can implement on types (see Appendix C for more on this trait). By following the help text's suggestion, we restrict the types valid for `T` to only those that implement `PartialOrd` and this example will compile, because the standard library implements `PartialOrd` on both `i32` and `char`.

### [In Struct Definitions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html#in-struct-definitions)

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

fn main() {
    let integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    let float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0 };
}
```

First, we declare the name of the type parameter inside angle brackets just after the name of the struct. Then we use the generic type in the struct definition where we would otherwise specify concrete data types.

Note that because we’ve used only one generic type to define `Point<T>`, this definition says that the `Point<T>` struct is generic over some type `T`, and the fields `x` and `y` are _both_ that same type, whatever that type may be. If we create an instance of a `Point<T>` that has values of different types, as in Listing 10-7, our code won’t compile.
```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

fn main() {
    let wont_work = Point { x: 5, y: 4.0 };
}
```

```rust
struct Point<T, U> {
    x: T,
    y: U,
}

fn main() {
    let both_integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };
    let both_float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0 };
    let integer_and_float = Point { x: 5, y: 4.0 };
}
```

If you're finding you need lots of generic types in your code, it could indicate that your code needs restructuring into smaller pieces.

### [In Enum Definitions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html#in-enum-definitions)

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```

```rust
enum Result<T, E> {
    Ok(T),
    Err(E),
}
```

In fact, this is what we used to open a file in Listing 9-3, where `T` was filled in with the type `std::fs::File` when the file was opened successfully and `E` was filled in with the type `std::io::Error` when there were problems opening the file.

### [In Method Definitions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html#in-method-definitions)

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 5, y: 10 };

    println!("p.x = {}", p.x());
}
```

Note that we have to declare `T` just after `impl` so we can use `T` to specify that we’re implementing methods on the type `Point<T>`. By declaring `T` as a generic type after `impl`, Rust can identify that the type in the angle brackets in `Point` is a generic type rather than a concrete type. We could have chosen a different name for this generic parameter than the generic parameter declared in the struct definition, but using the same name is conventional.

We can also specify constraints on generic types when defining methods on the type. We could, for example, implement methods only on `Point<f32>` instances rather than on `Point<T>` instances with any generic type.

```rust
impl Point<f32> {
    fn distance_from_origin(&self) -> f32 {
        (self.x.powi(2) + self.y.powi(2)).sqrt()
    }
}
```

This code means the type `Point<f32>` will have a `distance_from_origin` method; other instances of `Point<T>` where `T` is not of type `f32` will not have this method defined.

```rust
struct Point<X1, Y1> {
    x: X1,
    y: Y1,
}

impl<X1, Y1> Point<X1, Y1> {
    fn mixup<X2, Y2>(self, other: Point<X2, Y2>) -> Point<X1, Y2> {
        Point {
            x: self.x,
            y: other.y,
        }
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p1 = Point { x: 5, y: 10.4 };
    let p2 = Point { x: "Hello", y: 'c' };

    let p3 = p1.mixup(p2);

    println!("p3.x = {}, p3.y = {}", p3.x, p3.y);
}
```

Here, the generic parameters `X1` and `Y1` are declared after `impl` because they go with the struct definition. The generic parameters `X2` and `Y2` are declared after `fn mixup`, because they’re only relevant to the method.

### [Performance of Code Using Generics](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html#performance-of-code-using-generics)

The good news is that using generic types won't make your program run any slower than it would with concrete types.

Rust accomplishes this by performing monomorphization of the code using generics at compile time. _Monomorphization_ is the process of turning generic code into specific code by filling in the concrete types that are used when compiled. In this process, the compiler does the opposite of the steps we used to create the generic function in Listing 10-5: the compiler looks at all the places where generic code is called and generates code for the concrete types the generic code is called with.

```rust
let integer = Some(5);
let float = Some(5.0);
```

When Rust compiles this code, it performs monomorphization. During that process, the compiler reads the values that have been used in `Option<T>` instances and identifies two kinds of `Option<T>`: one is `i32` and the other is `f64`. As such, it expands the generic definition of `Option<T>` into two definitions specialized to `i32` and `f64`, thereby replacing the generic definition with the specific ones.

The monomorphized version of the code looks similar to the following (the compiler uses different names than what we’re using here for illustration):

```rust
enum Option_i32 {
    Some(i32),
    None,
}

enum Option_f64 {
    Some(f64),
    None,
}

fn main() {
    let integer = Option_i32::Some(5);
    let float = Option_f64::Some(5.0);
}
```

The generic `Option<T>` is replaced with the specific definitions created by the compiler. Because Rust compiles generic code into code that specifies the type in each instance, we pay no runtime cost for using generics. When the code runs, it performs just as it would if we had duplicated each definition by hand. The process of monomorphization makes Rust’s generics extremely efficient at runtime.
