### [Defining a Trait](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#defining-a-trait)

A type’s behavior consists of the methods we can call on that type. Different types share the same behavior if we can call the same methods on all of those types. Trait definitions are a way to group method signatures together to define a set of behaviors necessary to accomplish some purpose.

For example, let’s say we have multiple structs that hold various kinds and amounts of text: a `NewsArticle` struct that holds a news story filed in a particular location and a `Tweet` that can have at most 280 characters along with metadata that indicates whether it was a new tweet, a retweet, or a reply to another tweet.

We want to make a media aggregator library crate named `aggregator` that can display summaries of data that might be stored in a `NewsArticle` or `Tweet` instance. To do this, we need a summary from each type, and we’ll request that summary by calling a `summarize` method on an instance. Listing

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String;
}
```

Here, we declare a trait using the `trait` keyword and then the trait’s name, which is `Summary` in this case. We’ve also declared the trait as `pub` so that crates depending on this crate can make use of this trait too, as we’ll see in a few examples. Inside the curly brackets, we declare the method signatures that describe the behaviors of the types that implement this trait, which in this case is `fn summarize(&self) -> String`.

After the method signature, instead of providing an implementation within curly brackets, we use a semicolon. Each type implementing this trait must provide its own custom behavior for the body of the method. The compiler will enforce that any type that has the `Summary` trait will have the method `summarize` defined with this signature exactly.

A trait can have multiple methods in its body: the method signatures are listed one per line and each line ends in a semicolon.

```rust
pub struct NewsArticle {
    pub headline: String,
    pub location: String,
    pub author: String,
    pub content: String,
}

impl Summary for NewsArticle {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}, by {} ({})", self.headline, self.author, self.location)
    }
}

pub struct Tweet {
    pub username: String,
    pub content: String,
    pub reply: bool,
    pub retweet: bool,
}

impl Summary for Tweet {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("{}: {}", self.username, self.content)
    }
}
```

Implementing a trait on a type is similar to implementing regular methods. The difference is that after `impl`, we put the trait name we want to implement, then use the `for` keyword, and then specify the name of the type we want to implement the trait for.

Now that the library has implemented the `Summary` trait on `NewsArticle` and `Tweet`, users of the crate can call the trait methods on instances of `NewsArticle` and `Tweet` in the same way we call regular methods. The only difference is that the user must bring the trait into scope as well as the types.

```rust
use aggregator::{Summary, Tweet};

fn main() {
    let tweet = Tweet {
        username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
        content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
        ),
        reply: false,
        retweet: false,
    };

    println!("1 new tweet: {}", tweet.summarize());
}
```

Other crates that depend on the `aggregator` crate can also bring the `Summary` trait into scope to implement `Summary` on their own types. One restriction to note is that we can implement a trait on a type only if at least one of the trait or the type is local to our crate. For example, we can implement standard library traits like `Display` on a custom type like `Tweet` as part of our `aggregator` crate functionality, because the type `Tweet` is local to our `aggregator` crate. We can also implement `Summary` on `Vec<T>` in our `aggregator` crate, because the trait `Summary` is local to our `aggregator` crate.

But we can’t implement external traits on external types. For example, we can’t implement the `Display` trait on `Vec<T>` within our `aggregator` crate, because `Display` and `Vec<T>` are both defined in the standard library and aren’t local to our `aggregator` crate. This restriction is part of a property called _coherence_, and more specifically the _orphan rule_, so named because the parent type is not present. This rule ensures that other people’s code can’t break your code and vice versa. Without the rule, two crates could implement the same trait for the same type, and Rust wouldn’t know which implementation to use.

### [Default Implementations](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#default-implementations)

Sometimes it’s useful to have default behavior for some or all of the methods in a trait instead of requiring implementations for all methods on every type. Then, as we implement the trait on a particular type, we can keep or override each method’s default behavior.

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        String::from("(Read more...)")
    }
}
```

To use a default implementation to summarize instances of `NewsArticle`, we specify an empty `impl` block with `impl Summary for NewsArticle {}`.

Default implementations can call other methods in the same trait, even if those other methods don’t have a default implementation. In this way, a trait can provide a lot of useful functionality and only require implementors to specify a small part of it.

```rust
pub trait Summary {
    fn summarize_author(&self) -> String;

    fn summarize(&self) -> String {
        format!("(Read more from {}...)", self.summarize_author())
    }
}
```

```rust
impl Summary for Tweet {
    fn summarize_author(&self) -> String {
        format!("@{}", self.username)
    }
}
```

### [Traits as Parameters](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#traits-as-parameters)

```rust
pub fn notify(item: &impl Summary) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```

Instead of a concrete type for the `item` parameter, we specify the `impl` keyword and the trait name. This parameter accepts any type that implements the specified trait.

#### [Trait Bound Syntax](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#trait-bound-syntax)

The `impl Trait` syntax works for straightforward cases but is actually syntax sugar for a longer form known as a _trait bound_; it looks like this:

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item: &T) {
    println!("Breaking news! {}", item.summarize());
}
```

This longer form is equivalent to the example in the previous section but is more verbose. We place trait bounds with the declaration of the generic type parameter after a colon and inside angle brackets.

For example, we can have two parameters that implement `Summary`. Doing so with the `impl Trait` syntax looks like this:

```rust
pub fn notify(item1: &impl Summary, item2: &impl Summary) {
```

Using `impl Trait` is appropriate if we want this function to allow `item1` and `item2` to have different types (as long as both types implement `Summary`). If we want to force both parameters to have the same type, however, we must use a trait bound, like this:

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary>(item1: &T, item2: &T) {
```

#### [Specifying Multiple Trait Bounds with the `+` Syntax](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#specifying-multiple-trait-bounds-with-the--syntax)

```rust
pub fn notify(item: &(impl Summary + Display)) {
```

```rust
pub fn notify<T: Summary + Display>(item: &T) {
```

#### [Clearer Trait Bounds with `where` Clauses](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#clearer-trait-bounds-with-where-clauses)

Using too many trait bounds has its downsides. Each generic has its own trait bounds, so functions with multiple generic type parameters can contain lots of trait bound information between the function’s name and its parameter list, making the function signature hard to read. For this reason, Rust has alternate syntax for specifying trait bounds inside a `where` clause after the function signature. So instead of writing this:

```rust
fn some_function<T: Display + Clone, U: Clone + Debug>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32 {
```

we can use a `where` clause, like this:

```rust
fn some_function<T, U>(t: &T, u: &U) -> i32
where
    T: Display + Clone,
    U: Clone + Debug,
{
```

### [Returning Types that Implement Traits](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#returning-types-that-implement-traits)

We can also use the `impl Trait` syntax in the return position to return a value of some type that implements a trait, as shown here:

```rust
fn returns_summarizable() -> impl Summary {
    Tweet {
        username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
        content: String::from(
            "of course, as you probably already know, people",
        ),
        reply: false,
        retweet: false,
    }
}
```

By using `impl Summary` for the return type, we specify that the `returns_summarizable` function returns some type that implements the `Summary` trait without naming the concrete type. In this case, `returns_summarizable` returns a `Tweet`, but the code calling this function doesn’t need to know that.

The ability to specify a return type only by the trait it implements is especially useful in the context of closures and iterators

The `impl Trait` syntax lets you concisely specify that a function returns some type that implements the `Iterator` trait without needing to write out a very long type.

However, you can only use `impl Trait` if you’re returning a single type.

```rust
fn returns_summarizable(switch: bool) -> impl Summary {
    if switch {
        NewsArticle {
            headline: String::from(
                "Penguins win the Stanley Cup Championship!",
            ),
            location: String::from("Pittsburgh, PA, USA"),
            author: String::from("Iceburgh"),
            content: String::from(
                "The Pittsburgh Penguins once again are the best \
                 hockey team in the NHL.",
            ),
        }
    } else {
        Tweet {
            username: String::from("horse_ebooks"),
            content: String::from(
                "of course, as you probably already know, people",
            ),
            reply: false,
            retweet: false,
        }
    }
}
```

Returning either a `NewsArticle` or a `Tweet` isn’t allowed due to restrictions around how the `impl Trait` syntax is implemented in the compiler.

### [Using Trait Bounds to Conditionally Implement Methods](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch10-02-traits.html#using-trait-bounds-to-conditionally-implement-methods)

By using a trait bound with an `impl` block that uses generic type parameters, we can implement methods conditionally for types that implement the specified traits. For example, the type `Pair<T>` in Listing 10-15 always implements the `new` function to return a new instance of `Pair<T>`

But in the next `impl` block, `Pair<T>` only implements the `cmp_display` method if its inner type `T` implements the `PartialOrd` trait that enables comparison _and_ the `Display` trait that enables printing.

We can also conditionally implement a trait for any type that implements another trait. Implementations of a trait on any type that satisfies the trait bounds are called _blanket implementations_ and are extensively used in the Rust standard library. For example, the standard library implements the `ToString` trait on any type that implements the `Display` trait.

```rust
impl<T: Display> ToString for T {
    // --snip--
}
```

Because the standard library has this blanket implementation, we can call the `to_string` method defined by the `ToString` trait on any type that implements the `Display` trait. For example, we can turn integers into their corresponding `String` values like this because integers implement `Display`:

```rust
let s = 3.to_string();
```

Traits and trait bounds let us write code that uses generic type parameters to reduce duplication but also specify to the compiler that we want the generic type to have particular behavior. The compiler can then use the trait bound information to check that all the concrete types used with our code provide the correct behavior. In dynamically typed languages, we would get an error at runtime if we called a method on a type which didn’t define the method. But Rust moves these errors to compile time so we’re forced to fix the problems before our code is even able to run. Additionally, we don’t have to write code that checks for behavior at runtime because we’ve already checked at compile time. Doing so improves performance without having to give up the flexibility of generics.