### [Updating a Vector](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-01-vectors.html#updating-a-vector)

Recall the rule that states you can’t have mutable and immutable references in the same scope.

```rust
    let mut v = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    let first = &v[0];

    v.push(6);

    println!("The first element is: {}", first);
```

The code might look like it should work: why should a reference to the first element care about changes at the end of the vector? This error is due to the way vectors work: because vectors put the values next to each other in memory, adding a new element onto the end of the vector might require allocating new memory and copying the old elements to the new space, if there isn’t enough room to put all the elements next to each other where the vector is currently stored. In that case, the reference to the first element would be pointing to deallocated memory. The borrowing rules prevent programs from ending up in that situation.

### [Iterating over the Values in a Vector](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-01-vectors.html#iterating-over-the-values-in-a-vector)

```rust
    let mut v = vec![100, 32, 57];
    for i in &mut v {
        *i += 50;
    }
```

Iterating over a vector, whether immutably or mutably, is safe because of the borrow checker's rules. If we attempted to insert or remove items in the `for` loop bodies in Listing 8-7 and Listing 8-8, we would get a compiler error similar to the one we got with the code in Listing 8-6. The reference to the vector that the `for` loop holds prevents simultaneous modification of the whole vector.

### [Using an Enum to Store Multiple Types](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-01-vectors.html#using-an-enum-to-store-multiple-types)

```rust
    enum SpreadsheetCell {
        Int(i32),
        Float(f64),
        Text(String),
    }

    let row = vec![
        SpreadsheetCell::Int(3),
        SpreadsheetCell::Text(String::from("blue")),
        SpreadsheetCell::Float(10.12),
    ];
```

If Rust allowed a vector to hold any type, there would be a chance that one or more of the types would cause errors with the operations performed on the elements of the vector.

If you don’t know the exhaustive set of types a program will get at runtime to store in a vector, the enum technique won’t work. Instead, you can use a trait object, which we’ll cover in Chapter 17.

### [Dropping a Vector Drops Its Elements](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-01-vectors.html#dropping-a-vector-drops-its-elements)

The borrow checker ensures that any references to contents of a vector are only used while the vector itself is valid.