## [Storing Keys with Associated Values in Hash Maps](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#storing-keys-with-associated-values-in-hash-maps)

Many programming languages support this kind of data structure, but they often use a different name, such as hash, map, object, hash table, dictionary, or associative array, just to name a few.

Hash maps are useful when you want to look up data not by using an index, as you can with vectors, but by using a key that can be of any type. For example, in a game, you could keep track of each team’s score in a hash map in which each key is a team’s name and the values are each team’s score. Given a team name, you can retrieve its score.

### [Creating a New Hash Map](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#creating-a-new-hash-map)

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);
```

Of our three common collections, this one is the least often used, so it’s not included in the features brought into scope automatically in the prelude.

Hash maps also have less support from the standard library; there’s no built-in macro to construct them, for example.

Like vectors, hash maps are homogeneous: all of the keys must have the same type as each other, and all of the values must have the same type.

### [Accessing Values in a Hash Map](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#accessing-values-in-a-hash-map)

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

    let team_name = String::from("Blue");
    let score = scores.get(&team_name).copied().unwrap_or(0);
```

This program handles the `Option` by calling `copied` to get an `Option<i32>` rather than an `Option<&i32>`, then `unwrap_or` to set `score` to zero if `scores` doesn't have an entry for the key.

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Yellow"), 50);

    for (key, value) in &scores {
        println!("{}: {}", key, value);
    }
```

This code will print each pair in an arbitrary order:

```text
Yellow: 50
Blue: 10
```

### [Hash Maps and Ownership](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#hash-maps-and-ownership)

For types that implement the `Copy` trait, like `i32`, the values are copied into the hash map. For owned values like `String`, the values will be moved and the hash map will be the owner of those values

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let field_name = String::from("Favorite color");
    let field_value = String::from("Blue");

    let mut map = HashMap::new();
    map.insert(field_name, field_value);
    // field_name and field_value are invalid at this point, try using them and
    // see what compiler error you get!
```

### [Updating a Hash Map](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#updating-a-hash-map)

When you want to change the data in a hash map, you have to decide how to handle the case when a key already has a value assigned. You could replace the old value with the new value, completely disregarding the old value. You could keep the old value and ignore the new value, only adding the new value if the key _doesn’t_ already have a value. Or you could combine the old value and the new value. Let’s look at how to do each of these!

#### [Overwriting a Value](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#overwriting-a-value)

If we insert a key and a value into a hash map and then insert that same key with a different value, the value associated with that key will be replaced.

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();

    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);
    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 25);

    println!("{:?}", scores);
```

#### [Adding a Key and Value Only If a Key Isn’t Present](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#adding-a-key-and-value-only-if-a-key-isnt-present)

Hash maps have a special API for this called `entry` that takes the key you want to check as a parameter. The return value of the `entry` method is an enum called `Entry` that represents a value that might or might not exist. Let’s say we want to check whether the key for the Yellow team has a value associated with it. If it doesn’t, we want to insert the value 50, and the same for the Blue team. Using the `entry` API, the code looks like Listing 8-24.

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let mut scores = HashMap::new();
    scores.insert(String::from("Blue"), 10);

    scores.entry(String::from("Yellow")).or_insert(50);
    scores.entry(String::from("Blue")).or_insert(50);

    println!("{:?}", scores);
```

The `or_insert` method on `Entry` is defined to return a mutable reference to the value for the corresponding `Entry` key if that key exists, and if not, inserts the parameter as the new value for this key and returns a mutable reference to the new value. This technique is much cleaner than writing the logic ourselves and, in addition, plays more nicely with the borrow checker.

#### [Updating a Value Based on the Old Value](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#updating-a-value-based-on-the-old-value)

```rust
    use std::collections::HashMap;

    let text = "hello world wonderful world";

    let mut map = HashMap::new();

    for word in text.split_whitespace() {
        let count = map.entry(word).or_insert(0);
        *count += 1;
    }

    println!("{:?}", map);
```

This code will print `{"world": 2, "hello": 1, "wonderful": 1}`.

The `split_whitespace` method returns an iterator over sub-slices, separated by whitespace, of the value in `text`. The `or_insert` method returns a mutable reference (`&mut V`) to the value for the specified key. Here we store that mutable reference in the `count` variable, so in order to assign to that value, we must first dereference `count` using the asterisk (`*`). The mutable reference goes out of scope at the end of the `for` loop, so all of these changes are safe and allowed by the borrowing rules.

### [Hashing Functions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#hashing-functions)

By default, `HashMap` uses a hashing function called [_SipHash_]( [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SipHash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SipHash)) that can provide resistance to Denial of Service (DoS) attacks involving hash tables. This is not the fastest hashing algorithm available, but the trade-off for better security that comes with the drop in performance is worth it. If you profile your code and find that the default hash function is too slow for your purposes, you can switch to another function by specifying a different hasher. A _hasher_ is a type that implements the `BuildHasher` trait. We’ll talk about traits and how to implement them in Chapter 10. You don’t necessarily have to implement your own hasher from scratch; [crates.io](https://crates.io/) has libraries shared by other Rust users that provide hashers implementing many common hashing algorithms.

## [Summary](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-03-hash-maps.html#summary)

Vectors, strings, and hash maps will provide a large amount of functionality necessary in programs when you need to store, access, and modify data. Here are some exercises you should now be equipped to solve:

-   Given a list of integers, use a vector and return the median (when sorted, the value in the middle position) and mode (the value that occurs most often; a hash map will be helpful here) of the list.
-   Convert strings to pig latin. The first consonant of each word is moved to the end of the word and “ay” is added, so “first” becomes “irst-fay.” Words that start with a vowel have “hay” added to the end instead (“apple” becomes “apple-hay”). Keep in mind the details about UTF-8 encoding!
-   Using a hash map and vectors, create a text interface to allow a user to add employee names to a department in a company. For example, “Add Sally to Engineering” or “Add Amir to Sales.” Then let the user retrieve a list of all people in a department or all people in the company by department, sorted alphabetically.

The standard library API documentation describes methods that vectors, strings, and hash maps have that will be helpful for these exercises!