## [Using Message Passing to Transfer Data Between Threads](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch16-02-message-passing.html#using-message-passing-to-transfer-data-between-threads)

One increasingly popular approach to ensuring safe concurrency is _message passing_, where threads or actors communicate by sending each other messages containing data. Here’s the idea in a slogan from [the Go language documentation](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#concurrency): “Do not communicate by sharing memory; instead, share memory by communicating.”

To accomplish message-sending concurrency, Rust's standard library provides an implementation of _channels_. A channel is a general programming concept by which data is sent from one thread to another.

You can imagine a channel in programming as being like a directional channel of water, such as a stream or a river. If you put something like a rubber duck into a river, it will travel downstream to the end of the waterway.

A channel has two halves: a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter half is the upstream location where you put rubber ducks into the river, and the receiver half is where the rubber duck ends up downstream. One part of your code calls methods on the transmitter with the data you want to send, and another part checks the receiving end for arriving messages. A channel is said to be _closed_ if either the transmitter or receiver half is dropped.

Here, we’ll work up to a program that has one thread to generate values and send them down a channel, and another thread that will receive the values and print them out. We’ll be sending simple values between threads using a channel to illustrate the feature. Once you’re familiar with the technique, you could use channels for any threads that need to communicate between each other, such as a chat system or a system where many threads perform parts of a calculation and send the parts to one thread that aggregates the results.

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;

fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();
}
```

> Listing 16-6: Creating a channel and assigning the two halves to `tx` and `rx`

We create a new channel using the `mpsc::channel` function; `mpsc` stands for _multiple producer, single consumer_. In short, the way Rust’s standard library implements channels means a channel can have multiple _sending_ ends that produce values but only one _receiving_ end that consumes those values. Imagine multiple streams flowing together into one big river: everything sent down any of the streams will end up in one river at the end. We’ll start with a single producer for now, but we’ll add multiple producers when we get this example working.

he `mpsc::channel` function returns a tuple, the first element of which is the sending end--the transmitter--and the second element is the receiving end--the receiver. The abbreviations `tx` and `rx` are traditionally used in many fields for _transmitter_ and _receiver_ respectively, so we name our variables as such to indicate each end.

Let’s move the transmitting end into a spawned thread and have it send one string so the spawned thread is communicating with the main thread, as shown in Listing 16-7. This is like putting a rubber duck in the river upstream or sending a chat message from one thread to another.

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();

    thread::spawn(move || {
        let val = String::from("hi");
        tx.send(val).unwrap();
    });
}
```

> Listing 16-7: Moving `tx` to a spawned thread and sending “hi”

Again, we’re using `thread::spawn` to create a new thread and then using `move` to move `tx` into the closure so the spawned thread owns `tx`. The spawned thread needs to own the transmitter to be able to send messages through the channel. The transmitter has a `send` method that takes the value we want to send. The `send` method returns a `Result<T, E>` type, so if the receiver has already been dropped and there’s nowhere to send a value, the send operation will return an error. In this example, we’re calling `unwrap` to panic in case of an error. But in a real application, we would handle it properly

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();

    thread::spawn(move || {
        let val = String::from("hi");
        tx.send(val).unwrap();
    });

    let received = rx.recv().unwrap();
    println!("Got: {}", received);
}
```

> Listing 16-8: Receiving the value “hi” in the main thread and printing it

We’ve used `recv` in this example for simplicity; we don’t have any other work for the main thread to do other than wait for messages, so blocking the main thread is appropriate.

When we run the code in Listing 16-8, we’ll see the value printed from the main thread:

```text
Got: hi
```

### [Channels and Ownership Transference](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch16-02-message-passing.html#channels-and-ownership-transference)

The ownership rules play a vital role in message sending because they help you write safe, concurrent code. Preventing errors in concurrent programming is the advantage of thinking about ownership throughout your Rust programs. Let’s do an experiment to show how channels and ownership work together to prevent problems: we’ll try to use a `val` value in the spawned thread _after_ we’ve sent it down the channel.

Here, we try to print `val` after we’ve sent it down the channel via `tx.send`. Allowing this would be a bad idea: once the value has been sent to another thread, that thread could modify or drop it before we try to use the value again. Potentially, the other thread’s modifications could cause errors or unexpected results due to inconsistent or nonexistent data.

Our concurrency mistake has caused a compile time error. The `send` function takes ownership of its parameter, and when the value is moved, the receiver takes ownership of it. This stops us from accidentally using the value again after sending it; the ownership system checks that everything is okay.

### [Sending Multiple Values and Seeing the Receiver Waiting](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch16-02-message-passing.html#sending-multiple-values-and-seeing-the-receiver-waiting)

he code in Listing 16-8 compiled and ran, but it didn’t clearly show us that two separate threads were talking to each other over the channel. In Listing 16-10 we’ve made some modifications that will prove the code in Listing 16-8 is running concurrently: the spawned thread will now send multiple messages and pause for a second between each message.

```rust
use std::sync::mpsc;
use std::thread;
use std::time::Duration;

fn main() {
    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();

    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("hi"),
            String::from("from"),
            String::from("the"),
            String::from("thread"),
        ];

        for val in vals {
            tx.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });

    for received in rx {
        println!("Got: {}", received);
    }
}
```

> Listing 16-10: Sending multiple messages and pausing between each

This time, the spawned thread has a vector of strings that we want to send to the main thread. We iterate over them, sending each individually, and pause between each by calling the `thread::sleep` function with a `Duration` value of 1 second.

In the main thread, we’re not calling the `recv` function explicitly anymore: instead, we’re treating `rx` as an iterator. For each value received, we’re printing it. When the channel is closed, iteration will end.

When running the code in Listing 16-10, you should see the following output with a 1-second pause in between each line:

```text
Got: hi
Got: from
Got: the
Got: thread
```

Because we don’t have any code that pauses or delays in the `for` loop in the main thread, we can tell that the main thread is waiting to receive values from the spawned thread.

### [Creating Multiple Producers by Cloning the Transmitter](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch16-02-message-passing.html#creating-multiple-producers-by-cloning-the-transmitter)

Earlier we mentioned that `mpsc` was an acronym for _multiple producer, single consumer_. Let’s put `mpsc` to use and expand the code in Listing 16-10 to create multiple threads that all send values to the same receiver.

```rust
  // --snip--

    let (tx, rx) = mpsc::channel();

    let tx1 = tx.clone();
    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("hi"),
            String::from("from"),
            String::from("the"),
            String::from("thread"),
        ];

        for val in vals {
            tx1.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });

    thread::spawn(move || {
        let vals = vec![
            String::from("more"),
            String::from("messages"),
            String::from("for"),
            String::from("you"),
        ];

        for val in vals {
            tx.send(val).unwrap();
            thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(1));
        }
    });

    for received in rx {
        println!("Got: {}", received);
    }

    // --snip--
```

> Listing 16-11: Sending multiple messages from multiple producers

This time, before we create the first spawned thread, we call `clone` on the transmitter. This will give us a new transmitter we can pass to the first spawned thread. We pass the original transmitter to a second spawned thread. This gives us two threads, each sending different messages to the one receiver.

When you run the code, your output should look something like this:

```text
Got: hi
Got: more
Got: from
Got: messages
Got: for
Got: the
Got: thread
Got: you
```

You might see the values in another order, depending on your system. This is what makes concurrency interesting as well as difficult. If you experiment with `thread::sleep`, giving it various values in the different threads, each run will be more nondeterministic and create different output each time.