## [How to Write Tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html#how-to-write-tests)

Tests are Rust functions that verify that the non-test code is functioning in the expected manner. The bodies of test functions typically perform these three actions:

1.  Set up any needed data or state.
2.  Run the code you want to test.
3.  Assert the results are what you expect.

### [The Anatomy of a Test Function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/nightly/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html#the-anatomy-of-a-test-function)

When you run your tests with the `cargo test` command, Rust builds a test runner binary that runs the annotated functions and reports on whether each test function passes or fails.

Whenever we make a new library project with Cargo, a test module with a test function in it is automatically generated for us. This module gives you a template for writing your tests so you don’t have to look up the exact structure and syntax every time you start a new project.

Note the `#[test]` annotation: this attribute indicates this is a test function, so the test runner knows to treat this function as a test. We might also have non-test functions in the `tests` module to help set up common scenarios or perform common operations, so we always need to indicate which functions are tests.

The `0 measured` statistic is for benchmark tests that measure performance. Benchmark tests are, as of this writing, only available in nightly Rust.

The next part of the test output starting at `Doc-tests adder` is for the results of any documentation tests. We don’t have any documentation tests yet, but Rust can compile any code examples that appear in our API documentation. This feature helps keep your docs and your code in sync!

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    #[test]
    fn exploration() {
        assert_eq!(2 + 2, 4);
    }

    #[test]
    fn another() {
        panic!("Make this test fail");
    }
}
```

Each test is run in a new thread, and when the main thread sees that a test thread has died, the test is marked as failed.

### [Checking Results with the `assert!` Macro](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html#checking-results-with-the-assert-macro)

We give the `assert!` macro an argument that evaluates to a Boolean. If the value is `true`, nothing happens and the test passes. If the value is `false`, the `assert!` macro calls `panic!` to cause the test to fail.

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
}

impl Rectangle {
    fn can_hold(&self, other: &Rectangle) -> bool {
        self.width > other.width && self.height > other.height
    }
}
```

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn larger_can_hold_smaller() {
        let larger = Rectangle {
            width: 8,
            height: 7,
        };
        let smaller = Rectangle {
            width: 5,
            height: 1,
        };

        assert!(larger.can_hold(&smaller));
    }
}
```

### [Testing Equality with the `assert_eq!` and `assert_ne!` Macros](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html#testing-equality-with-the-assert_eq-and-assert_ne-macros)

A common way to verify functionality is to test for equality between the result of the code under test and the value you expect the code to return. You could do this using the `assert!` macro and passing it an expression using the `==` operator. However, this is such a common test that the standard library provides a pair of macros—`assert_eq!` and `assert_ne!`—to perform this test more conveniently. These macros compare two arguments for equality or inequality, respectively. They’ll also print the two values if the assertion fails, which makes it easier to see _why_ the test failed; conversely, the `assert!` macro only indicates that it got a `false` value for the `==` expression, without printing the values that led to the `false` value.

Note that in some languages and test frameworks, the parameters to equality assertion functions are called `expected` and `actual`, and the order in which we specify the arguments matters. However, in Rust, they’re called `left` and `right`, and the order in which we specify the value we expect and the value the code produces doesn’t matter. We could write the assertion in this test as `assert_eq!(add_two(2), 4)`, which would result in the same failure message that displays `` assertion failed: `(left == right)` ``.

The `assert_ne!` macro will pass if the two values we give it are not equal and fail if they’re equal. This macro is most useful for cases when we’re not sure what a value _will_ be, but we know what the value definitely _shouldn’t_ be. For example, if we’re testing a function that is guaranteed to change its input in some way, but the way in which the input is changed depends on the day of the week that we run our tests, the best thing to assert might be that the output of the function is not equal to the input.

Under the surface, the `assert_eq!` and `assert_ne!` macros use the operators `==` and `!=`, respectively. When the assertions fail, these macros print their arguments using debug formatting, which means the values being compared must implement the `PartialEq` and `Debug` traits. All primitive types and most of the standard library types implement these traits. For structs and enums that you define yourself, you’ll need to implement `PartialEq` to assert equality of those types. You’ll also need to implement `Debug` to print the values when the assertion fails.

this is usually as straightforward as adding the `#[derive(PartialEq, Debug)]` annotation to your struct or enum definition

### [Adding Custom Failure Messages](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-01-writing-tests.html#adding-custom-failure-messages)

You can also add a custom message to be printed with the failure message as optional arguments to the `assert!`, `assert_eq!`, and `assert_ne!` macros. Any arguments specified after the required arguments are passed along to the `format!` macro

```rust
pub fn greeting(name: &str) -> String {
    format!("Hello {}!", name)
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn greeting_contains_name() {
        let result = greeting("Carol");
        assert!(result.contains("Carol"));
    }
}
```

The requirements for this program haven’t been agreed upon yet, and we’re pretty sure the `Hello` text at the beginning of the greeting will change. We decided we don’t want to have to update the test when the requirements change, so instead of checking for exact equality to the value returned from the `greeting` function, we’ll just assert that the output contains the text of the input parameter.

Now let’s introduce a bug into this code by changing `greeting` to exclude `name` to see what the default test failure looks like:

```rust
pub fn greeting(name: &str) -> String {
    String::from("Hello!")
}
```