
## [Controlling How Tests Are Run](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#controlling-how-tests-are-run)

Just as `cargo run` compiles your code and then runs the resulting binary, `cargo test` compiles your code in test mode and runs the resulting test binary. The default behavior of the binary produced by `cargo test` is to run all the tests in parallel and capture output generated during test runs, preventing the output from being displayed and making it easier to read the output related to the test results.

Some command line options go to `cargo test`, and some go to the resulting test binary. To separate these two types of arguments, you list the arguments that go to `cargo test` followed by the separator `--` and then the ones that go to the test binary. Running `cargo test --help` displays the options you can use with `cargo test`, and running `cargo test -- --help` displays the options you can use after the separator.

### [Running Tests in Parallel or Consecutively](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#running-tests-in-parallel-or-consecutively)

When you run multiple tests, by default they run in parallel using threads, meaning they finish running faster and you get feedback quicker. Because the tests are running at the same time, you must make sure your tests don’t depend on each other or on any shared state, including a shared environment, such as the current working directory or environment variables.

For example, say each of your tests runs some code that creates a file on disk named _test-output.txt_ and writes some data to that file. Then each test reads the data in that file and asserts that the file contains a particular value, which is different in each test. Because the tests run at the same time, one test might overwrite the file in the time between another test writing and reading the file. The second test will then fail, not because the code is incorrect but because the tests have interfered with each other while running in parallel. One solution is to make sure each test writes to a different file; another solution is to run the tests one at a time.

If you don’t want to run the tests in parallel or if you want more fine-grained control over the number of threads used, you can send the `--test-threads` flag and the number of threads you want to use to the test binary.

```console
cargo test -- --test-threads=1
```

We set the number of test threads to `1`, telling the program not to use any parallelism.

### [Showing Function Output](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#showing-function-output)

By default, if a test passes, Rust’s test library captures anything printed to standard output. For example, if we call `println!` in a test and the test passes, we won’t see the `println!` output in the terminal; we’ll see only the line that indicates the test passed. If a test fails, we’ll see whatever was printed to standard output with the rest of the failure message.

```rust
fn prints_and_returns_10(a: i32) -> i32 {
    println!("I got the value {}", a);
    10
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn this_test_will_pass() {
        let value = prints_and_returns_10(4);
        assert_eq!(10, value);
    }

    #[test]
    fn this_test_will_fail() {
        let value = prints_and_returns_10(8);
        assert_eq!(5, value);
    }
}
```

Note that nowhere in this output do we see `I got the value 4`, which is what is printed when the test that passes runs. That output has been captured. The output from the test that failed, `I got the value 8`, appears in the section of the test summary output, which also shows the cause of the test failure.

If we want to see printed values for passing tests as well, we can tell Rust to also show the output of successful tests with `--show-output`.

```console
cargo test -- --show-output
```

### [Running a Subset of Tests by Name](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#running-a-subset-of-tests-by-name)

Sometimes, running a full test suite can take a long time. If you’re working on code in a particular area, you might want to run only the tests pertaining to that code. You can choose which tests to run by passing `cargo test` the name or names of the test(s) you want to run as an argument.

```rust
pub fn add_two(a: i32) -> i32 {
    a + 2
}

#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn add_two_and_two() {
        assert_eq!(4, add_two(2));
    }

    #[test]
    fn add_three_and_two() {
        assert_eq!(5, add_two(3));
    }

    #[test]
    fn one_hundred() {
        assert_eq!(102, add_two(100));
    }
}
```

#### [Running Single Tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#running-single-tests)

We can pass the name of any test function to `cargo test` to run only that test:

```console
cargo test one_hundred
```

The test output lets us know we had more tests that didn’t run by displaying `2 filtered out` at the end.

#### [Filtering to Run Multiple Tests](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#filtering-to-run-multiple-tests)

We can specify part of a test name, and any test whose name matches that value will be run. For example, because two of our tests’ names contain `add`, we can run those two by running `cargo test add`

```console
cargo test add
```

Also note that the module in which a test appears becomes part of the test’s name, so we can run all the tests in a module by filtering on the module’s name.

### [Ignoring Some Tests Unless Specifically Requested](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch11-02-running-tests.html#ignoring-some-tests-unless-specifically-requested)

Sometimes a few specific tests can be very time-consuming to execute, so you might want to exclude them during most runs of `cargo test`. Rather than listing as arguments all tests you do want to run, you can instead annotate the time-consuming tests using the `ignore` attribute to exclude them, as shown here:

```rust
#[test]
fn it_works() {
    assert_eq!(2 + 2, 4);
}

#[test]
#[ignore]
fn expensive_test() {
    // code that takes an hour to run
}
```

The `expensive_test` function is listed as `ignored`. If we want to run only the ignored tests, we can use `cargo test -- --ignored`:

```console
cargo test -- --ignored
```

When you’re at a point where it makes sense to check the results of the `ignored` tests and you have time to wait for the results, you can run `cargo test -- --ignored` instead. If you want to run all tests whether they’re ignored or not, you can run `cargo test -- --include-ignored`.