### [Adding Useful Functionality with Derived Traits](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch05-02-example-structs.html#adding-useful-functionality-with-derived-traits)

The `println!` macro can do many kinds of formatting, and by default, the curly brackets tell `println!` to use formatting known as `Display`: output intended for direct end user consumption. The primitive types we’ve seen so far implement `Display` by default, because there’s only one way you’d want to show a `1` or any other primitive type to a user. But with structs, the way `println!` should format the output is less clear because there are more display possibilities: Do you want commas or not? Do you want to print the curly brackets? Should all the fields be shown?

Another way to print out a value using the `Debug` format is to use the [`dbg!` macro](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/macro.dbg.html), which takes ownership of an expression (as opposed to `println!` that takes a reference), prints the file and line number of where that `dbg!` macro call occurs in your code along with the resulting value of that expression, and returns ownership of the value.

> Note: Calling the `dbg!` macro prints to the standard error console stream (`stderr`), as opposed to `println!` which prints to the standard output console stream (`stdout`).

```rust
#[derive(Debug)]
struct Rectangle {
    width: u32,
    height: u32,
}

fn main() {
    let scale = 2;
    let rect1 = Rectangle {
        width: dbg!(30 * scale),
        height: 50,
    };

    dbg!(&rect1);
}
```

We can put `dbg!` around the expression `30 * scale` and, because `dbg!` returns ownership of the expression’s value, the `width` field will get the same value as if we didn’t have the `dbg!` call there. We don’t want `dbg!` to take ownership of `rect1`, so we use a reference to `rect1` in the next call. Here’s what the output of this example looks like:

```bash
$ cargo run
   Compiling rectangles v0.1.0 (file:///projects/rectangles)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.61s
     Running `target/debug/rectangles`
[src/main.rs:10] 30 * scale = 60
[src/main.rs:14] &rect1 = Rectangle {
    width: 60,
    height: 50,
}
```