## [Storing UTF-8 Encoded Text with Strings](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#storing-utf-8-encoded-text-with-strings)

New Rustaceans commonly get stuck on strings for a combination of three reasons: Rust’s propensity for exposing possible errors, strings being a more complicated data structure than many programmers give them credit for, and UTF-8.

We discuss strings in the context of collections because strings are implemented as a collection of bytes, plus some methods to provide useful functionality when those bytes are interpreted as text.

### [Creating a New String](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#creating-a-new-string)

Many of the same operations available with `Vec<T>` are available with `String` as well, because `String` is actually implemented as a wrapper around a vector of bytes with some extra guarantees, restrictions, and capabilities.

For that, we use the `to_string` method, which is available on any type that implements the `Display` trait, as string literals do.

```rust
  let data = "initial contents";

    let s = data.to_string();

    // the method also works on a literal directly:
    let s = "initial contents".to_string();
```

Using the `to_string` method to create a `String` from a string literal

```rust
    let s = String::from("initial contents");
```

Using the `String::from` function to create a `String` from a string literal

Remember that strings are UTF-8 encoded, so we can include any properly encoded data in them

```rust
    let hello = String::from("السلام عليكم");
    let hello = String::from("Dobrý den");
    let hello = String::from("Hello");
    let hello = String::from("שָׁלוֹם");
    let hello = String::from("नमस्ते");
    let hello = String::from("こんにちは");
    let hello = String::from("안녕하세요");
    let hello = String::from("你好");
    let hello = String::from("Olá");
    let hello = String::from("Здравствуйте");
    let hello = String::from("Hola");
```

### [Updating a String](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#updating-a-string)

you can conveniently use the `+` operator or the `format!` macro to concatenate `String` values.

#### [Appending to a String with `push_str` and `push`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#appending-to-a-string-with-push_str-and-push)

```rust
    let mut s = String::from("foo");
    s.push_str("bar");
```

The `push_str` method takes a string slice because we don’t necessarily want to take ownership of the parameter. For example, in the code in Listing 8-16, we want to be able to use `s2` after appending its contents to `s1`.

```rust
    let mut s1 = String::from("foo");
    let s2 = "bar";
    s1.push_str(s2);
    println!("s2 is {}", s2);
```

The `push` method takes a single character as a parameter and adds it to the `String`.

```rust
    let mut s = String::from("lo");
    s.push('l');
```

#### [Concatenation with the `+` Operator or the `format!` Macro](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#concatenation-with-the--operator-or-the-format-macro)

```rust
    let s1 = String::from("Hello, ");
    let s2 = String::from("world!");
    let s3 = s1 + &s2; // note s1 has been moved here and can no longer be used
```

The `+` operator uses the `add` method, whose signature looks something like this:

```rust
fn add(self, s: &str) -> String {
```

First, `s2` has an `&`, meaning that we’re adding a _reference_ of the second string to the first string. This is because of the `s` parameter in the `add` function: we can only add a `&str` to a `String`; we can’t add two `String` values together. But wait—the type of `&s2` is `&String`, not `&str`, as specified in the second parameter to `add`. So why does Listing 8-18 compile?

The reason we’re able to use `&s2` in the call to `add` is that the compiler can _coerce_ the `&String` argument into a `&str`. When we call the `add` method, Rust uses a _deref coercion_, which here turns `&s2` into `&s2[..]`. We’ll discuss deref coercion in more depth in Chapter 15. Because `add` does not take ownership of the `s` parameter, `s2` will still be a valid `String` after this operation.

Second, we can see in the signature that `add` takes ownership of `self`, because `self` does _not_ have an `&`.

So although `let s3 = s1 + &s2;` looks like it will copy both strings and create a new one, this statement actually takes ownership of `s1`, appends a copy of the contents of `s2`, and then returns ownership of the result. In other words, it looks like it’s making a lot of copies but isn’t; the implementation is more efficient than copying.

```rust
    let s1 = String::from("tic");
    let s2 = String::from("tac");
    let s3 = String::from("toe");

    let s = s1 + "-" + &s2 + "-" + &s3;
```

For more complicated string combining, we can instead use the `format!` macro:

```rust
    let s1 = String::from("tic");
    let s2 = String::from("tac");
    let s3 = String::from("toe");

    let s = format!("{}-{}-{}", s1, s2, s3);
```

the code generated by the `format!` macro uses references so that this call doesn’t take ownership of any of its parameters.

### [Indexing into Strings](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#indexing-into-strings)

However, if you try to access parts of a `String` using indexing syntax in Rust, you’ll get an error.

```rust
    let s1 = String::from("hello");
    let h = s1[0];
```

#### [Internal Representation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#internal-representation)

A `String` is a wrapper over a `Vec<u8>`.

```rust
    let hello = String::from("Hola");
```

In this case, `len` will be 4, which means the vector storing the string “Hola” is 4 bytes long. Each of these letters takes 1 byte when encoded in UTF-8.

```rust
    let hello = String::from("Здравствуйте");
```

Asked how long the string is, you might say 12. In fact, Rust’s answer is 24: that’s the number of bytes it takes to encode “Здравствуйте” in UTF-8, because each Unicode scalar value in that string takes 2 bytes of storage.

The answer, then, is that to avoid returning an unexpected value and causing bugs that might not be discovered immediately

#### [Bytes and Scalar Values and Grapheme Clusters! Oh My!](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#bytes-and-scalar-values-and-grapheme-clusters-oh-my)

Another point about UTF-8 is that there are actually three relevant ways to look at strings from Rust’s perspective: as bytes, scalar values, and grapheme clusters (the closest thing to what we would call _letters_).

If we look at the Hindi word “नमस्ते” written in the Devanagari script, it is stored as a vector of `u8` values that looks like this:

```text
[224, 164, 168, 224, 164, 174, 224, 164, 184, 224, 165, 141, 224, 164, 164,
224, 165, 135]
```

That’s 18 bytes and is how computers ultimately store this data. If we look at them as Unicode scalar values, which are what Rust’s `char` type is, those bytes look like this:

```text
['न', 'म', 'स', '्', 'त', 'े']
```

There are six `char` values here, but the fourth and sixth are not letters: they’re diacritics that don’t make sense on their own. Finally, if we look at them as grapheme clusters, we’d get what a person would call the four letters that make up the Hindi word:

```text
["न", "म", "स्", "ते"]
```

Rust provides different ways of interpreting the raw string data that computers store so that each program can choose the interpretation it needs, no matter what human language the data is in.

A final reason Rust doesn’t allow us to index into a `String` to get a character is that indexing operations are expected to always take constant time (O(1)). But it isn’t possible to guarantee that performance with a `String`, because Rust would have to walk through the contents from the beginning to the index to determine how many valid characters there were.


### [Slicing Strings](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#slicing-strings)

```rust
let hello = "Здравствуйте";

let s = &hello[0..4];
```

Here, `s` will be a `&str` that contains the first 4 bytes of the string. Earlier, we mentioned that each of these characters was 2 bytes, which means `s` will be `Зд`.

If we were to try to slice only part of a character’s bytes with something like `&hello[0..1]`, Rust would panic at runtime in the same way as if an invalid index were accessed in a vector:

You should use ranges to create string slices with caution, because doing so can crash your program.

### [Methods for Iterating Over Strings](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#methods-for-iterating-over-strings)

The best way to operate on pieces of strings is to be explicit about whether you want characters or bytes. For individual Unicode scalar values, use the `chars` method. Calling `chars` on “Зд” separates out and returns two values of type `char`, and you can iterate over the result to access each element:

```rust
for c in "Зд".chars() {
    println!("{}", c);
}
```

This code will print the following:

```text
З
д
```

Alternatively, the `bytes` method returns each raw byte, which might be appropriate for your domain:

```rust
for b in "Зд".bytes() {
    println!("{}", b);
}
```

This code will print the four bytes that make up this string:

```text
208
151
208
180
```

But be sure to remember that valid Unicode scalar values may be made up of more than 1 byte.

Getting grapheme clusters from strings as with the Devanagari script is complex, so this functionality is not provided by the standard library.

### [Strings Are Not So Simple](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch08-02-strings.html#strings-are-not-so-simple)

To summarize, strings are complicated. Different programming languages make different choices about how to present this complexity to the programmer. Rust has chosen to make the correct handling of `String` data the default behavior for all Rust programs, which means programmers have to put more thought into handling UTF-8 data upfront. This trade-off exposes more of the complexity of strings than is apparent in other programming languages, but it prevents you from having to handle errors involving non-ASCII characters later in your development life cycle.

The good news is that the standard library offers a lot of functionality built off the `String` and `&str` types to help handle these complex situations correctly. Be sure to check out the documentation for useful methods like `contains` for searching in a string and `replace` for substituting parts of a string with another string.



