## [Variables and Mutability](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch03-01-variables-and-mutability.html#variables-and-mutability)

Compiler errors can be frustrating, but really they only mean your program isn’t safely doing what you want it to do yet; they do _not_ mean that you’re not a good programmer! Experienced Rustaceans still get compiler errors.

Adding `mut` also conveys intent to future readers of the code by indicating that other parts of the code will be changing this variable’s value.

### [Constants](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch03-01-variables-and-mutability.html#constants)

First, you aren’t allowed to use `mut` with constants. Constants aren’t just immutable by default—they’re always immutable.

Constants can be declared in any scope, including the global scope, which makes them useful for values that many parts of code need to know about.

The last difference is that constants may be set only to a constant expression, not the result of a value that could only be computed at runtime.

```rust
const THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS: u32 = 60 * 60 * 3;
```

Rust’s naming convention for constants is to use all uppercase with underscores between words.

The compiler is able to evaluate a limited set of operations at compile time, which lets us choose to write out this value in a way that’s easier to understand and verify, rather than setting this constant to the value 10,800.

Constants are valid for the entire time a program runs, within the scope they were declared in.

### [Shadowing](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch03-01-variables-and-mutability.html#shadowing)

In effect, the second variable overshadows the first, taking any uses of the variable name to itself until either it itself is shadowed or the scope ends.

```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;

    let x = x + 1;

    {
        let x = x * 2;
        println!("The value of x in the inner scope is: {x}");
    }

    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```

Shadowing is different from marking a variable as `mut`, because we’ll get a compile-time error if we accidentally try to reassign to this variable without using the `let` keyword. By using `let`, we can perform a few transformations on a value but have the variable be immutable after those transformations have been completed.

The other difference between `mut` and shadowing is that because we’re effectively creating a new variable when we use the `let` keyword again, we can change the type of the value but reuse the same name.

```rust
fn main() {
    let spaces = "   ";
    let spaces = spaces.len();
}
```

Shadowing thus spares us from having to come up with different names, such as `spaces_str` and `spaces_num`; instead, we can reuse the simpler spaces name.