## [All the Places Patterns Can Be Used](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#all-the-places-patterns-can-be-used)

Patterns pop up in a number of places in Rust, and you’ve been using them a lot without realizing it!

### [`match` Arms](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#match-arms)

```text
match VALUE {
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
    PATTERN => EXPRESSION,
}
```

For example, here's the `match` expression from Listing 6-5 that matches on an `Option<i32>` value in the variable `x`:

```rust
match x {
    None => None,
    Some(i) => Some(i + 1),
}
```

### [Conditional `if let` Expressions](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#conditional-if-let-expressions)

In Chapter 6 we discussed how to use `if let` expressions mainly as a shorter way to write the equivalent of a `match` that only matches one case. Optionally, `if let` can have a corresponding `else` containing code to run if the pattern in the `if let` doesn’t match.

Listing 18-1 shows that it’s also possible to mix and match `if let`, `else if`, and `else if let` expressions. Doing so gives us more flexibility than a `match` expression in which we can express only one value to compare with the patterns. Also, Rust doesn't require that the conditions in a series of `if let`, `else if`, `else if let` arms relate to each other.

The code in Listing 18-1 determines what color to make your background based on a series of checks for several conditions. For this example, we’ve created variables with hardcoded values that a real program might receive from user input.

```rust
fn main() {
    let favorite_color: Option<&str> = None;
    let is_tuesday = false;
    let age: Result<u8, _> = "34".parse();

    if let Some(color) = favorite_color {
        println!("Using your favorite color, {color}, as the background");
    } else if is_tuesday {
        println!("Tuesday is green day!");
    } else if let Ok(age) = age {
        if age > 30 {
            println!("Using purple as the background color");
        } else {
            println!("Using orange as the background color");
        }
    } else {
        println!("Using blue as the background color");
    }
}
```

If the user specifies a favorite color, that color is used as the background. If no favorite color is specified and today is Tuesday, the background color is green. Otherwise, if the user specifies their age as a string and we can parse it as a number successfully, the color is either purple or orange depending on the value of the number. If none of these conditions apply, the background color is blue.

This conditional structure lets us support complex requirements. With the hardcoded values we have here, this example will print `Using purple as the background color`.

You can see that `if let` can also introduce shadowed variables in the same way that `match` arms can: the line `if let Ok(age) = age` introduces a new shadowed `age` variable that contains the value inside the `Ok` variant. This means we need to place the `if age > 30` condition within that block: we can’t combine these two conditions into `if let Ok(age) = age && age > 30`. The shadowed `age` we want to compare to 30 isn’t valid until the new scope starts with the curly bracket.

The downside of using `if let` expressions is that the compiler doesn’t check for exhaustiveness, whereas with `match` expressions it does. If we omitted the last `else` block and therefore missed handling some cases, the compiler would not alert us to the possible logic bug.

### [`while let` Conditional Loops](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#while-let-conditional-loops)

```rust
    let mut stack = Vec::new();

    stack.push(1);
    stack.push(2);
    stack.push(3);

    while let Some(top) = stack.pop() {
        println!("{}", top);
    }
```

### [`for` Loops](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#for-loops)

In a `for` loop, the value that directly follows the keyword `for` is a pattern. For example, in `for x in y` the `x` is the pattern.

```rust
    let v = vec!['a', 'b', 'c'];

    for (index, value) in v.iter().enumerate() {
        println!("{} is at index {}", value, index);
    }
```

```console
$ cargo run
   Compiling patterns v0.1.0 (file:///projects/patterns)
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.52s
     Running `target/debug/patterns`
a is at index 0
b is at index 1
c is at index 2
```

We adapt an iterator using the `enumerate` method so it produces a value and the index for that value, placed into a tuple. The first value produced is the tuple `(0, 'a')`. When this value is matched to the pattern `(index, value)`, `index` will be `0` and `value` will be `'a'`, printing the first line of the output.

### [`let` Statements](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#let-statements)

Prior to this chapter, we had only explicitly discussed using patterns with `match` and `if let`, but in fact, we’ve used patterns in other places as well, including in `let` statements. For example, consider this straightforward variable assignment with `let`:

```rust
let x = 5;
```

Every time you've used a `let` statement like this you've been using patterns, although you might not have realized it! More formally, a `let` statement looks like this:

```text
let PATTERN = EXPRESSION;
```

In statements like `let x = 5;` with a variable name in the `PATTERN` slot, the variable name is just a particularly simple form of a pattern. Rust compares the expression against the pattern and assigns any names it finds. So in the `let x = 5;` example, `x` is a pattern that means “bind what matches here to the variable `x`.” Because the name `x` is the whole pattern, this pattern effectively means “bind everything to the variable `x`, whatever the value is.”

To see the pattern matching aspect of `let` more clearly, consider Listing 18-4, which uses a pattern with `let` to destructure a tuple.

```rust
    let (x, y, z) = (1, 2, 3);
```

### ### [Function Parameters](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch18-01-all-the-places-for-patterns.html#function-parameters)

Function parameters can also be patterns. The code in Listing 18-6, which declares a function named `foo` that takes one parameter named `x` of type `i32`, should by now look familiar.

```rust
fn foo(x: i32) {
    // code goes here
}
```

The `x` part is a pattern! As we did with `let`, we could match a tuple in a function’s arguments to the pattern. Listing 18-7 splits the values in a tuple as we pass it to a function.

```rust
fn print_coordinates(&(x, y): &(i32, i32)) {
    println!("Current location: ({}, {})", x, y);
}

fn main() {
    let point = (3, 5);
    print_coordinates(&point);
}
```

This code prints `Current location: (3, 5)`. The values `&(3, 5)` match the pattern `&(x, y)`, so `x` is the value `3` and `y` is the value `5`.

We can also use patterns in closure parameter lists in the same way as in function parameter lists, because closures are similar to functions

At this point, you’ve seen several ways of using patterns, but patterns don’t work the same in every place we can use them. In some places, the patterns must be irrefutable; in other circumstances, they can be refutable.