## [Refutability: Whether a Pattern Might Fail to Match](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch18-02-refutability.html#refutability-whether-a-pattern-might-fail-to-match)

Patterns come in two forms: refutable and irrefutable. Patterns that will match for any possible value passed are _irrefutable_. An example would be `x` in the statement `let x = 5;` because `x` matches anything and therefore cannot fail to match. Patterns that can fail to match for some possible value are _refutable_. An example would be `Some(x)` in the expression `if let Some(x) = a_value` because if the value in the `a_value` variable is `None` rather than `Some`, the `Some(x)` pattern will not match.

Function parameters, `let` statements, and `for` loops can only accept irrefutable patterns, because the program cannot do anything meaningful when values don’t match. The `if let` and `while let` expressions accept refutable and irrefutable patterns, but the compiler warns against irrefutable patterns because by definition they’re intended to handle possible failure: the functionality of a conditional is in its ability to perform differently depending on success or failure.

Listing 18-8 shows a `let` statement, but for the pattern we’ve specified `Some(x)`, a refutable pattern. As you might expect, this code will not compile.

```rust
  let Some(x) = some_option_value;
```

If `some_option_value` was a `None` value, it would fail to match the pattern `Some(x)`, meaning the pattern is refutable. However, the `let` statement can only accept an irrefutable pattern because there is nothing valid the code can do with a `None` value. At compile time, Rust will complain that we’ve tried to use a refutable pattern where an irrefutable pattern is required

If we have a refutable pattern where an irrefutable pattern is needed, we can fix it by changing the code that uses the pattern: instead of using `let`, we can use `if let`. Then if the pattern doesn’t match, the code will just skip the code in the curly brackets, giving it a way to continue validly.

```rust
    if let Some(x) = some_option_value {
        println!("{}", x);
    }
```

```rust
   if let x = 5 {
        println!("{}", x);
    };
```

```console
$ cargo run
   Compiling patterns v0.1.0 (file:///projects/patterns)
warning: irrefutable `if let` pattern
 --> src/main.rs:2:8
  |
2 |     if let x = 5 {
  |        ^^^^^^^^^
  |
  = note: `#[warn(irrefutable_let_patterns)]` on by default
  = note: this pattern will always match, so the `if let` is useless
  = help: consider replacing the `if let` with a `let`

warning: `patterns` (bin "patterns") generated 1 warning
    Finished dev [unoptimized + debuginfo] target(s) in 0.39s
     Running `target/debug/patterns`
5
```

For this reason, match arms must use refutable patterns, except for the last arm, which should match any remaining values with an irrefutable pattern. Rust allows us to use an irrefutable pattern in a `match` with only one arm, but this syntax isn’t particularly useful and could be replaced with a simpler `let` statement.

