## [Working with Environment Variables](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-05-working-with-environment-variables.html#working-with-environment-variables)

We’ll improve `minigrep` by adding an extra feature: an option for case-insensitive searching that the user can turn on via an environment variable. We could make this feature a command line option and require that users enter it each time they want it to apply, but by instead making it an environment variable, we allow our users to set the environment variable once and have all their searches be case insensitive in that terminal session.

### [Writing a Failing Test for the Case-Insensitive `search` Function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-05-working-with-environment-variables.html#writing-a-failing-test-for-the-case-insensitive-search-function)

We’ll continue to follow the TDD process, so the first step is again to write a failing test. We’ll add a new test for the new `search_case_insensitive` function and rename our old test from `one_result` to `case_sensitive` to clarify the differences between the two tests

```rust
#[cfg(test)]
mod tests {
    use super::*;

    #[test]
    fn case_sensitive() {
        let query = "duct";
        let contents = "\
Rust:
safe, fast, productive.
Pick three.
Duct tape.";

        assert_eq!(vec!["safe, fast, productive."], search(query, contents));
    }

    #[test]
    fn case_insensitive() {
        let query = "rUsT";
        let contents = "\
Rust:
safe, fast, productive.
Pick three.
Trust me.";

        assert_eq!(
            vec!["Rust:", "Trust me."],
            search_case_insensitive(query, contents)
        );
    }
}
```

Note that we’ve edited the old test’s `contents` too. We’ve added a new line with the text `"Duct tape."` using a capital D that shouldn’t match the query `"duct"` when we’re searching in a case-sensitive manner. Changing the old test in this way helps ensure that we don’t accidentally break the case-sensitive search functionality that we’ve already implemented.

The new test for the case-_insensitive_ search uses `"rUsT"` as its query. In the `search_case_insensitive` function we’re about to add, the query `"rUsT"` should match the line containing `"Rust:"` with a capital R and match the line `"Trust me."` even though both have different casing from the query. This is our failing test, and it will fail to compile because we haven’t yet defined the `search_case_insensitive` function. Feel free to add a skeleton implementation that always returns an empty vector, similar to the way we did for the `search`

### [Implementing the `search_case_insensitive` Function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-05-working-with-environment-variables.html#implementing-the-search_case_insensitive-function)

The `search_case_insensitive` function, shown in Listing 12-21, will be almost the same as the `search` function. The only difference is that we’ll lowercase the `query` and each `line` so whatever the case of the input arguments, they’ll be the same case when we check whether the line contains the query.

```rust
pub fn search_case_insensitive<'a>(
    query: &str,
    contents: &'a str,
) -> Vec<&'a str> {
    let query = query.to_lowercase();
    let mut results = Vec::new();

    for line in contents.lines() {
        if line.to_lowercase().contains(&query) {
            results.push(line);
        }
    }

    results
}
```

While `to_lowercase` will handle basic Unicode, it won’t be 100% accurate. If we were writing a real application, we’d want to do a bit more work here, but this section is about environment variables, not Unicode, so we’ll leave it at that here.

Note that `query` is now a `String` rather than a string slice, because calling `to_lowercase` creates new data rather than referencing existing data. Say the query is `"rUsT"`, as an example: that string slice doesn’t contain a lowercase `u` or `t` for us to use, so we have to allocate a new `String` containing `"rust"`. When we pass `query` as an argument to the `contains` method now, we need to add an ampersand because the signature of `contains` is defined to take a string slice.

Next, we add a call to `to_lowercase` on each `line` to lowercase all characters. Now that we’ve converted `line` and `query` to lowercase, we’ll find matches no matter what the case of the query is.

```rust
pub struct Config {
    pub query: String,
    pub file_path: String,
    pub ignore_case: bool,
}
```

We added the `ignore_case` field that holds a Boolean. Next, we need the `run` function to check the `ignore_case` field’s value and use that to decide whether to call the `search` function or the `search_case_insensitive` function

```rust
pub fn run(config: Config) -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    let contents = fs::read_to_string(config.file_path)?;

    let results = if config.ignore_case {
        search_case_insensitive(&config.query, &contents)
    } else {
        search(&config.query, &contents)
    };

    for line in results {
        println!("{line}");
    }

    Ok(())
}
```

Then we’ll use the `var` function from the `env` module to check to see if any value has been set for an environment variable named `IGNORE_CASE`, as shown in Listing 12-23.

```rust
use std::env;
// --snip--

impl Config {
    pub fn build(args: &[String]) -> Result<Config, &'static str> {
        if args.len() < 3 {
            return Err("not enough arguments");
        }

        let query = args[1].clone();
        let file_path = args[2].clone();

        let ignore_case = env::var("IGNORE_CASE").is_ok();

        Ok(Config {
            query,
            file_path,
            ignore_case,
        })
    }
}
```

Here, we create a new variable `ignore_case`. To set its value, we call the `env::var` function and pass it the name of the `IGNORE_CASE` environment variable. The `env::var` function returns a `Result` that will be the successful `Ok` variant that contains the value of the environment variable if the environment variable is set to any value. It will return the `Err` variant if the environment variable is not set.

We’re using the `is_ok` method on the `Result` to check whether the environment variable is set, which means the program should do a case-insensitive search. If the `IGNORE_CASE` environment variable isn’t set to anything, `is_ok` will return false and the program will perform a case-sensitive search. We don’t care about the _value_ of the environment variable, just whether it’s set or unset, so we’re checking `is_ok` rather than using `unwrap`, `expect`, or any of the other methods we’ve seen on `Result`.

```console
IGNORE_CASE=1 cargo run -- to poem.txt
```

Some programs allow arguments _and_ environment variables for the same configuration. In those cases, the programs decide that one or the other takes precedence. For another exercise on your own, try controlling case sensitivity through either a command line argument or an environment variable. Decide whether the command line argument or the environment variable should take precedence if the program is run with one set to case sensitive and one set to ignore case.

The `std::env` module contains many more useful features for dealing with environment variables: check out its documentation to see what is available.