## [Writing Error Messages to Standard Error Instead of Standard Output](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-06-writing-to-stderr-instead-of-stdout.html#writing-error-messages-to-standard-error-instead-of-standard-output)

At the moment, we’re writing all of our output to the terminal using the `println!` macro. In most terminals, there are two kinds of output: _standard output_ (`stdout`) for general information and _standard error_ (`stderr`) for error messages. This distinction enables users to choose to direct the successful output of a program to a file but still print error messages to the screen.

The `println!` macro is only capable of printing to standard output, so we have to use something else to print to standard error.

### [Checking Where Errors Are Written](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-06-writing-to-stderr-instead-of-stdout.html#checking-where-errors-are-written)

First, let’s observe how the content printed by `minigrep` is currently being written to standard output, including any error messages we want to write to standard error instead. We’ll do that by redirecting the standard output stream to a file while intentionally causing an error.

Command line programs are expected to send error messages to the standard error stream so we can still see error messages on the screen even if we redirect the standard output stream to a file. Our program is not currently well-behaved: we’re about to see that it saves the error message output to a file instead!

To demonstrate this behavior, we’ll run the program with `>` and the file path, _output.txt_, that we want to redirect the standard output stream to. We won’t pass any arguments, which should cause an error:

```console
cargo run > output.txt
```

The `>` syntax tells the shell to write the contents of standard output to _output.txt_ instead of the screen. We didn’t see the error message we were expecting printed to the screen, so that means it must have ended up in the file. This is what _output.txt_ contains:

```text
Problem parsing arguments: not enough arguments
```

Yup, our error message is being printed to standard output. It’s much more useful for error messages like this to be printed to standard error so only data from a successful run ends up in the file.

### [Printing Errors to Standard Error](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-06-writing-to-stderr-instead-of-stdout.html#printing-errors-to-standard-error)

The standard library provides the `eprintln!` macro that prints to the standard error stream, so let’s change the two places we were calling `println!` to print errors to use `eprintln!` instead.

```rust
fn main() {
    let args: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();

    let config = Config::build(&args).unwrap_or_else(|err| {
        eprintln!("Problem parsing arguments: {err}");
        process::exit(1);
    });

    if let Err(e) = minigrep::run(config) {
        eprintln!("Application error: {e}");
        process::exit(1);
    }
}
```

Let’s now run the program again in the same way, without any arguments and redirecting standard output with `>`:

```console
cargo run > output.txt
Problem parsing arguments: not enough arguments
```

Now we see the error onscreen and _output.txt_ contains nothing, which is the behavior we expect of command line programs.

## [Summary](https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/book/ch12-06-writing-to-stderr-instead-of-stdout.html#summary)

This chapter recapped some of the major concepts you’ve learned so far and covered how to perform common I/O operations in Rust. By using command line arguments, files, environment variables, and the `eprintln!` macro for printing errors, you’re now prepared to write command line applications. Combined with the concepts in previous chapters, your code will be well organized, store data effectively in the appropriate data structures, handle errors nicely, and be well tested.